In this directory, we provide SMILES strings and generated 3D structures for the molecules in the SAMPL4 hydration free energy challenge. The SMILES strings and title pairs (in title_vs_smiles.txt in the relevant directories) are your definitive source here and the 3D structures were generated by us using Omega from the SMILES strings. These are provided without warranty in case they are useful.

The challenge set is divided into two components, a 'blind' component and a 'supplementary' component. Files for each of these are stored in the corresponding directories, with a .mol2 file containing all structures, and a text file providing titles and SMILES strings.

 Hydration free energies for both sets were obtained from J. Peter Guthrie from the literature, and so they are not blind in the true sense of the word. However, they are quite obscure, with the 'blind' compounds being relatively more obscure than the 'supplementary' compounds. As far as we are aware, the blind compounds have been hand-picked from the literature in disparate, diverse sources and should not be in any standard databases, while some of the supplementary compounds may occur in databases. You are urged NOT to attempt to look up any values for any of the compounds provided here, and you are REQURIED to disclose any experimental data you do consult in the course of participating in the challenge. 

The supplementary compounds were selected based on comparison with the blind compounds in order to provide additional related compounds which will help in exploring trends, such as attempting to identify systematic errors for specific functional groups. 

There are 52 compounds in total, of which 24 are in the blind set and the remainder are in the supplementary set. These are referred to by titles SAMPL4_001 through SAMPL4_052. 

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:
1) We have not dealt pKa prediction and handling of protonation states or tautomers in generating the 3D structures, so you will need to deal with this yourself if you have any concerns in this regard, though we expect all of these to be neutral.
2) Hydration free energies of acids such as carboxylic acids are normally reported as the transfer of the neutral form into water, so carboxylic acids should be kept as -COOH rather than -COO(minus)
3) Some of these molecules seem likely to have multiple stable conformations in solution, which may be separated by substantial energy barriers. You are advised to treat such cases with care and be attentive to the fact that nanosecond-length MD simulations may not sample all relevant conformations.
4) Overall scoring on the SAMPL challenge will involve a combined score, on the blind AND supplementary sets, as well as an additional score on just the blind set. You CAN do only the blind test if the computer time is a problem, though we urge you to do both as we believe the additional compounds will be beneficial in terms of providing additional insight.
5) A template for submission of your results is provided in the base directory
6) We ask for predicted uncertainties in your results. We actually ask for two numbers -- statistical uncertainty, and model uncertainty. Statistical uncertainty ought to come from some form of error analysis and should likely be something like the standard error in the mean for your computed free energy, given your particular method and parameters. For example, for an MD-based free energy calculation we might arrive at a value of perhaps 0.1 kcal/mol given the particular force field and amount of simulation time. In contrast, we also ask for model uncertainty, which is intended to be more an estimate of YOUR numerical estimate of the actual accuracy of these results. This could include things like uncertainty in the force field, flaws in parameters for particular functional groups, past experience, etc. The idea is that you use any means you like to predict how reliable this result is. If you think it is unreliable, assign a larger value here, and if you think it is quite accurate, assign a small value.  We plan to factor these uncertainty estimates into (at least one version of) the final scoring, in that penalties will be less for being wrong on low confdience compounds (but rewards will also be less for being right on them). That is to say, it's extremely useful to be able to predict when you are certain about something, and when less so. 
